Last week, we learned how
databases are organized, and
practiced how to make and interpret ER
diagrams and relational schemas, in order
to figure out how the data you want to
analyze are stored in the database.
This week we are going to
start writing SQL queries.
One of the first things you're going
to learn is how to write queries that
are considerate to your coworkers.
We are going to write queries that analyze
two sets of data from two real companies.
One dataset, donated from a local
startup in Durham, North Carolina,
called Dognition has tables
with over 1 million rows.
The other data set,
donated from a national US department
store chain called Dilliard's,
has tables with over 100 million rows.
An important thing to keep in mind
when working with data of this size,
is that the queries you write
will affect the speed at which
other people in the company
can retrieve data.
This means that the opportunities
you have to query a company's raw
data from its database are accompanied by
a responsibility to write queries that
impact others as little as possible.
To give you practice with what
this responsibility feels like,
the queries you will write in this course,
like those you'll write in a company, will
affect other people's database experience.
We have built the MySQL
database infrastructure for
this course to provide database access
to groups of about 150 students each.
When you right a query that is extremely
resource intensive, it can slow down or
even crash database access for
everyone else in your group of a 150 or
so students.
And if does crash, don't worry,
of course we'll restart it for you.
We had purposely designed the course
this way to give you an opportunity
in a safe environment to learn the
consequences of writing intensive queries.
We hope this will help motivate
you to adopt practices that will
prevent you from writing these types of
queries in the future when you are working
with databases in your own companies.
Another important thing you are going
to learn in the first MySQL lesson
is how to use SQL queries to verity and
describe all the contents in a database.
Two common ways you can accidentally write
queries that take a very long time to run
are by asking a database to
return all the data in a really,
really large table even though you
don't need all the data in that table.
Or by asking a database to combine tables
whose output has many more rows than you
expect due to many-to-many
relationships in your columns or
duplicate values in your rows.
Therefore, one of the best
ways to prevent yourself from
writing queries that are unnecessarily
taxing, is to know your data in detail.
If you know which tables are large, and
you know what to expect when you combine
information from different tables, you'll
be less likely to unintentionally write
queries that make the database work
really hard for no useful reason.
To prepare you to write these types of
queries, the next two videos will tell you
all about the datasets
we will be working with.
The following videos will show you how
to interact with those data ets through
the user interfaces we set up for
the course.
Then you will spend the rest of
the week using these interfaces to
practice queries.
By the end of the week,
you will be able to learn about and
describe all the contents
of a database and
will be able to export data from specific
tables in a socially responsible way.
It's going to be a very productive week,
so I hope you're ready to learn.
Watch the next two videos about
your datasets to get started.